doc: pelion: add Pelion client readme (#4419)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/pelion_client/README.rst

.. _pelion_client:

Pelion client
#############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Pelion client application demonstrates the integration of the Pelion library within the |NCS|.

Author: As I see it, @pdunaj to confirm: module and library are the same thing (see module architecture figure). The application is the "reception" of the PDMC (not an official shortening, roger that) within NCS. For this reason, I'd be fine with a name for the app that uses Pelion Device Management Client, as I proposed in another comment.

> The Pelion client application demonstrates the integration of the Pelion library within the |NCS|.

Reviewer: @melwee01 The application `pelion_client` is build by Nordic and different than `mbed-cloud-client-example`. Zephyr uses the terminology modules for libraries. We are treating `mbed-cloud-client` as a Zephyr module with the shortened name `pelion-dm`.

The application builds the Pelion resources, connects to the Pelion platform, and sends data to the web server over either LTE or OpenThread.

Pelion is an IoT cloud platform that offers services in the fields of connectivity, device management, and edge computing, which allow you to remotely manage and update your IoT devices.
To read more, see the `Pelion`_ website and the `Pelion documentation`_ portal.

Overview
********

The Pelion client application integrates `Pelion Device Management`_ features.

> The application establishes a secure connection with the Pelion cloud platform, starts the Pelion module, and initializes the cloud client.

Author: I kept Pelion on some occasions to make it clear we're referring to an external platform and not something within NCS.

The client creates two standard OMA resources that you can interact with from the Pelion web application.
One OMA resource reacts to button presses, while the other implements the stopwatch counter.
The Pelion client then starts communicating with the network using sockets.

.. _pelion_client_device_provisioning:

Device provisioning
===================

The device must be provisioned before it can connect with Pelion Device Management portal.

> When using Pelion, you can complete the provisioning process by using either a production tool (Factory Configurator Utility for factory provisioning) or a development process (developer flow for development devices).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using Pelion, you can complete the provisioning process using either a production tool (Factory Configurator Utility for factory provisioning) or the developer process.
```

For more information about the provisioning process, see `Provisioning devices for Pelion Device Management`_ in the Pelion documentation.

The application follows the developer flow provisioning process.
This process involves downloading the source file that contains a valid certificate.

> The file is available from Pelion's Device Management Portal and is used at build time to embed the required information to the application binary.

Author: I'll add a link here.

During the first boot, or whenever the Pelion storage partition is erased (:c:func:`fcc_storage_delete`), the storage will be populated with the credentials passed at build time.
This is done by calling :c:func:`fcc_developer_flow` right after the Factory Configurator Client (FCC) is initialized (:c:func:`fcc_init`).
For more information about these functions, see the `Pelion's factory_configurator_client.h`_ file reference page.

Using the valid certificate will allow the device to successfully register (connect) to the Pelion cloud.
At this stage, the device will be assigned a new device identity, under which it can be recognized later on.

Run time flow overview
======================

The following sections describe the Pelion client application operational flow at run time, after provisioning.

.. contents::
   :local:

>    :depth: 4

Author: Fix formatting.

Factory Configuration Client initialization
-------------------------------------------

After the board boot sequence, the application's ``pelion_fcc`` module initializes Pelion's FCC.
At this stage, the developer flow is enabled and the certificate is loaded to the Pelion storage partition (if needed).

Network backend initialization
------------------------------

In parallel to the FCC initialization, the application initializes the network backend.
The appropriate net module connects the required callbacks and starts either OpenThread (``net_ot``, using Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:thread_protocol_interface`) or the link control (``net_lte``, using the :ref:`lte_lc_readme`).

The network module tracks the connection state and informs the rest of the application if the connection is established or the network is disconnected.

Pelion module initialization
----------------------------

Pelion's client object is initialized from the Pelion module when the FCC is initialized.

> The module attaches several client callbacks that are required for informing the application about the connection status with the Pelion cloud.

Reviewer 2: Pelion Device Management <service>, rather than Pelion cloud.

> After initialization, the application starts the process of creating resource objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After initialization, the application begins creating resource objects.
```

The application broadcasts the event that triggers the resource creation and all other modules wishing to create resources must act at this time.

OMA resource creation
---------------------

> After the cloud client is initialized by the application, it sends ``create_object_event``, which starts the creation of objects with their related OMA resources.

Author: @pdunaj , would "Pelion Device Management Client" be a good name for the application? After all, the application implements it, so it would make sense to have this more or less consistent on both sides. Alternative proposal (I like it more, but it's longer): "Pelion Device Management Client for the nRF Connect SDK"...

| ``power_manager``     |                               | Switches the device into the low power mode when no interaction is detected for a given period of time.                                |
+-----------------------+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``dfu``               |                               | Confirms that the DFU image is working fine after the update process.                                                                  |
+-----------------------+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

On top of these modules, the application uses the following :ref:`lib_caf` modules:

* :ref:`caf_buttons`
* :ref:`caf_leds`

The following figure shows the application architecture.
The figure visualizes relations between Event Manager, modules, drivers, and libraries.

.. figure:: /images/pelion_client_architecture.svg

>     :alt: Module hierarchy

Author: Fix alignment.

    Relationship between modules and the event manager

.. _pelion_client_memory_allocation:

Memory allocation
=================

The application allocates memory dynamically for the following features:

* Event manager events - Memory for these events is allocated from Zephyr's :ref:`System Heap <zephyr:heap_v2>`.
* Pelion library - Memory for this library is allocated from the libc heap.

> * mbed TLS - Memory for this library is allocated from either the libc heap or a dedicated buffer.

Author: I'm going to stick to `mbed TLS`, because of how we write it in our docs. The source of https://tls.mbed.org/ is inconsistent and uses both `Mbed` and `mbed`.

   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf9160dk_nrf9160ns, nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf52840dk_nrf52840

.. include:: /includes/spm.txt

Pelion Device Management requirements
=====================================

You need a developer account on Pelion's `Device Management Portal`_.

Configuration
*************

The Pelion library is enabled with :option:`CONFIG_PELION_CLIENT` configuration option.

For the library to work, you must enable and properly configure the mbed TLS library.
To connect to Pelion's Device Management Portal, the device must be provisioned with valid credentials.
For the firmware update procedure to work, you must provision the device with valid update resources.

Mbed TLS
========

The Pelion library is depending on a properly configured mbed TLS library.
To simplify the development within the |NCS|, a predefined set of mbed TLS configuration options was prepared.
Set compatible with :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security` can be enabled by using :option:`CONFIG_PELION_NRF_SECURITY` configuration option.

Pelion credentials
==================

To be able to connect to the Pelion cloud, you need to complete the following configuration:

> 1. Generate and download a developer certificate file from Pelion's Device Management Portal.

Reviewer 2: Link out to Portal when mentioning it.

Reviewer 2: Actually, hang on, I'll find the reference for this...

Reviewer 2: https://developer.pelion.com/docs/device-management/current/provisioning-process/provisioning-development-devices.html

General tip for linking to Pelion: Google will gladly take users to old versions, so if you can specify /current/ in links, that'll take them to the most recent version. Don't trust users to find Pelion references by Googling. It's a good way for them to get lost.

   This file contains keys used for securing connection with the Pelion network.
#. Copy the downloaded file to :file:`applications/nrf_desktop/configuration/common/mbed_cloud_dev_credentials.c`, replacing the default one.
#. The file will be use according to the developer flow provisioning (see :ref:`pelion_client_device_provisioning`).
   If the certificate is not present :c:func:`fcc_developer_flow()` will copy it from the above mentioned developer certificate file (now being part of the application binary).

For details steps, see the `Provisioning development devices`_ guide in the Pelion documentation.

Firmware update
===============

> You can provide the devices with the new version of the firmware image over-the-air from Pelion's Device Management Portal (see :ref:`pelion_client_dfu`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can provide the devices with the new version of the firmware image over-the-air from Pelion Device Management Portal (see :ref:`pelion_client_dfu`).
```

> For the update to happen, you must enable the compatible bootloader.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before the update, you must enable a compatible bootloader.
```

> The Pelion library is compatible with MCUboot - it can be enabled with the :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Pelion library is compatible with MCUboot.
Enable it with the :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.
```

Along with the bootloader, you must also enable an image manager with the :option:`CONFIG_IMG_MANAGER` and :option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMG_MANAGER` Kconfig options.

Additionally, if the application image is large, you may need to store the update image on an external flash device.
In such case, enable the external flash support and correctly configure the partition layout.

The Pelion library's update manager is enabled when you select the :option:`CONFIG_PELION_UPDATE` Kconfig option.
This option enables components required for image transport and storage.

> For the update campaign to be recognized and the image be accepted, the device must be provisioned with the valid update resources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the update campaign to be recognized and the image be accepted, you need to provision the device with valid update resources.
```

To simplify the development process, you can have the update resources created by the update manifest generation tool.
The generated C file must be stored to the :file:`update_default_resources.c` file, located in the :file:`applications/nrf_desktop/configuration/common` directory.
The update resources embedded into the application image will be used to provision the device.

Configuration files
===================

You can find the configuration files in the :file:`applications/pelion_client/configuration` directory.
For each supported build target, you can find a subdirectory that contains all configuration files for the given target.

The application does not use a single :file:`prj.conf` file.
Configuration files are provided for different build types for each supported build target.

The following build types are available for various build targets:

* ``ZRelease`` -- Release version of the application with no debugging features.
* ``ZDebug`` -- Debug version of the application; the same as the ``ZRelease`` build type, but with debug options enabled.

> If the given build type is not supported on the selected build target, an error message will appear when `Building and running`_.

Reviewer 2: Generally, look for occurences of 'will' and replace with present tense.

In addition to the build types mentioned above, some build targets can provide more build types, which can be used to generate an application in a specific variant.

> Selecting the build type impacts configuration of all system elements that are enabled (application, bootloader, partition layout).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The selected build type impacts the configuration of all system elements that are enabled (application, bootloader, partition layout).
```

The following configuration files are specified for each build type:

* :file:`app_${CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE}.conf` - Contains configuration of the application.
* :file:`mcuboot_${CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE}.conf` - Contains configuration of the bootloader.
* :file:`pm_static_${CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE}.conf` - Contains configuration of the partition layout.

Additionally, each build target directory contains the following configuration files:

* :file:`mcuboot_private.pem` - Private signature used for binary image signing.
* :file:`dts.overlay` - The DTS overlay used to adjust the DTS for needs of the application (that is, enable and configure the required hardware).
* ``_def`` files - Configuration files for application modules.

The :file:`nrf52840dk_nrf52840` directory also includes the following optional file:

> * :file:`config-tls-pelion.h` - mbed TLS configuration overlay; used when Zephyr's default mbed TLS version is selected (this is a different mbed TLS version than the one provided by :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security`).

Reviewer 2: Mbed

Author: Checked with mbed.org and in our docs, and it's spelled "mbed TLS".

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`applications/pelion_client`

> Before building and running the firmware, ensure that the Pelion cloud platform is set up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before building and running the firmware, ensure that the Pelion Device Management is set up.
```

Also, the device must be provisioned and configured with the credentials for the connection attempt to succeed.
See `Configuration`_ for details.

The application is built the same way to any other |NCS| application or sample.

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. note::

>     Information about the known issues can be found in |NCS|'s :ref:`release_notes` and on the :ref:`known_issues` page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   For information about the known issues, see |NCS|'s :ref:`release_notes` and the :ref:`known_issues` page.
```

Selecting a build type
======================

Before you start testing the application, you can select one of the build types, depending on your development kit and building method.

Selecting a build type in SES
-----------------------------

.. include:: /gs_modifying.rst
   :start-after: build_types_selection_ses_start
   :end-before: build_types_selection_ses_end

Selecting a build type from command line
----------------------------------------

.. include:: /gs_modifying.rst
   :start-after: build_types_selection_cmd_start
   :end-before: build_types_selection_cmd_end

Testing
=======

After programming the application and all the prerequisites to your development kit, test the application by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_kit|

> #. Connect to the kit with a terminal emulator to observe log messages (for debug build types).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Connect to the development kit with a terminal emulator to observe log messages (for debug build types).
```

#. Reset the development kit.
#. Turn on the development kit.
   **LED1** and **LED2** start blinking, which indicates the network is connecting to the Pelion cloud.
   After several seconds, both LEDs stop blinking and remain turned on.
   This indicates that the device has established connection to the network backend and the Pelion server.

> #. Log in to Pelion's Device Management Platform.

Reviewer 2: Pelion Device Management Portal

Reviewer 2: There are other instances of this: if we're talking about the frontend, assuming no big product name changes have happened, it's Portal.

#. In the left pane, select :guilabel:`Device directory`.
   The list of all available devices is displayed.

   .. figure:: /images/pelion_device_directory.png
      :alt: Pelion's device directory

      Pelion's device directory

   A device that is actively communicating with the server (or was recently communicating with it) is listed with the ``Registered`` state and a green icon.
   The name of the device shows up on the list (and in the application log) only when it successfully connects to the server.
#. Select your device from the list of devices.
   The :guilabel:`Device details` pane appears.
#. In the :guilabel:`Device details` pane, select the :guilabel:`Resources` tab.

> #. Scroll down to where the value for the Digital Input resource is listed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Scroll down to the value for the ``Digital Input`` resource.
```

   .. figure:: /images/pelion_device_resources.png
      :alt: Pelion's device directory with the resources tab selected

      Pelion's device directory with the resources tab selected

> #. Press Button 1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Press **Button 1**.
```

>    The Digital Input instance 0 value in Pelion's Device Management Platform increases.

Reviewer 2: just Device Management is fine, probably

Author: Changed to "Pelion Device Management" on most occasions.

> #. Scroll down to where the value for the Stopwatch resource is listed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Scroll down to the value for the ``Stopwatch`` resource.
```

#. Wait for a couple of seconds to see the value increase.

Dependencies
************

> 

Reviewer 2: What do I need to do about it?

Author: Absolutely nothing. This is just a standard section that lists the dependencies of the application.

This application uses the following Zephyr libraries:

* :ref:`zephyr:thread_protocol_interface`

This application uses the following |NCS| libraries and drivers:

* :ref:`lib_caf`
* :ref:`event_manager`
* :ref:`lte_lc_readme`
* :ref:`partition_manager`

It uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`
* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security`

It uses the following `sdk-mcuboot`_ library:

* :ref:`MCUboot <mcuboot:mcuboot_wrapper>`

In addition, it uses the following sample:

* :ref:`secure_partition_manager`

Pelion client state events
==========================

> The following diagram shows the Pelion client states for the connection to the network and the Pelion platform.

Reviewer 2: Probably favor calling it Device Management service instead of Pelion platform. @peknis?

Reviewer 3: Yep.

Author: What about just "Pelion Device Management"? Or "Pelion Device Management platform"?

Reviewer 2: I think adding the platform in implies other things than _just_ Device Management. Not sure exactly what it includes anymore, just a vague recollection that it refers to a larger set of services and products than just Device Management.

In any case, the rule is the first mention on a page is Pelion Device Management, then after, drop the Pelion.

.. figure:: /images/pelion_client_states.svg
    :alt: Pelion client states

    Pelion client states

The internal procedures refer to situations where both connection types interact with each other:

> * The setup procedure takes place when the network connection is established, but the application has not yet connected to the Pelion platform.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The setup procedure takes place when the network connection is established, but the application has not yet connected to the Pelion Device Management.
```

* The pause procedure takes place when the network connection is failing for a known reason.
* The resume procedure takes place when the network connection is restored.

> The state transitions are related to the LED behavior, as described in `User Interface`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The state transitions are related to the LED behavior, as described in `User interface`_.
```

=====================================

You need a developer account on the `Pelion Device Management Portal`_.

Configuration
*************

The Pelion library is enabled with :option:`CONFIG_PELION_CLIENT` configuration option.

For the library to work, you must enable and properly configure the Mbed TLS library.
To connect to the Device Management, the device must be provisioned with valid credentials.
For the firmware update procedure to work, you must provision the device with valid update resources.

Mbed TLS
========

The Pelion library is depending on a properly configured Mbed TLS library.
To simplify the development within the |NCS|, a predefined set of Mbed TLS configuration options was prepared.
Set compatible with :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security` can be enabled using :option:`CONFIG_PELION_NRF_SECURITY` configuration option.

Pelion credentials
==================

To be able to connect to the Device Management, you need to complete the following configuration:

1. Generate and download a developer certificate file from the `Pelion Device Management Portal`_.
   This file contains keys used for securing connection with the Pelion network.

> #. Copy the downloaded file to :file:`applications/nrf_desktop/configuration/common/`, replacing the default :file:`mbed_cloud_dev_credentials.c` file.

Reviewer: File location should be `applications/pelion_client/configuration/common/`

Reviewer 4: Fixed

For details steps, see the `Provisioning development devices`_ guide in the Pelion documentation.

Firmware update
===============

You can provide the devices with the new version of the firmware image over-the-air from the Pelion Device Management Portal (see :ref:`pelion_client_dfu`).

Before the update, you must enable a compatible bootloader.
The Pelion library is compatible with MCUboot.
Enable it with the :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.
Along with the bootloader, you must also enable an image manager with the :option:`CONFIG_IMG_MANAGER` and :option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMG_MANAGER` Kconfig options.

Additionally, if the application image is large, you may need to store the update image on an external flash device.
In such case, enable the external flash support and correctly configure the partition layout.

The Pelion library's update manager is enabled when you select the :option:`CONFIG_PELION_UPDATE` Kconfig option.
This option enables components required for image transport and storage.
For the update campaign to be recognized and the image be accepted, you need to provision the device with the valid update resources.

> To simplify the development process, you can have the update resources created by the update manifest generation tool.

Reviewer: I suggest adding a direct link to the manifest creation tool, similar to the link above to the development credentials. The link should be https://developer.pelion.com/docs/device-management/v4.7/updating-firmware/manifest-tool.html

Reviewer 4: Added

> The generated C file must be stored to the :file:`update_default_resources.c` file, located in the :file:`applications/nrf_desktop/configuration/common` directory.

Reviewer: File location should be `applications/pelion_client/configuration/common`

Reviewer 4: Fixed

The update resources embedded into the application image are used to provision the device.

> 

Reviewer: The binary firmware file suitable for remote firmware update is different from the one that is flashed with `nrfjprog`. I would suggest adding a paragraph here that the user must use the binary firmware that has been signed with MCUBoot's private key and that the file can be found in the build folder under `zephyr/app_update.bin`.

Reviewer 4: added

| ``pelion_fcc``                | Reacts to ``factory_reset_event``                                                                        | Initializes Pelion's Factory Configurator Client (FCC) and initiates the developer flow mode.                                          |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``pelion_trace``              | -                                                                                                        | If enabled, it initializes debug traces in the Pelion DM library.                                                                      |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``net_ot``                    | - Send ``net_state_event``                                                                               | Initialize the network back end and tracks the network connection state.                                                               |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``net_ot``                    |  Send ``net_state_event``                                                                               | Initializes the network back end and tracks the network connection state.                                                               |
```

Author: This refers to two modules at the same time. I'll keep the plural.

> | ``net_lte``                   | - React to ``factory_reset_event``                                                                       |                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``net_lte``                   | Reacts to ``factory_reset_event``.                                                                       |                                                                                                                                        |
```

+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``oma_digital_input``         | Reacts to ``pelion_create_objects_event``, ``button_event``, ``net_state_event``, ``pelion_state_event`` | Registers the respective Open Mobile Alliance object resources, which work as an example of the device communication with the cloud.   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``oma_digital_input``         | Reacts to ``pelion_create_objects_event``, ``button_event``, ``net_state_event`` and ``pelion_state_event``. | Registers the respective Open Mobile Alliance object resources, which work as an example of the device communication with the cloud.   |
```

|                               |                                                                                                          | This resource enables buttons.                                                                                                         |
|                               |                                                                                                          | When starting the board, the firmware registers four buttons in the Pelion Device Management Portal.                                   |
|                               |                                                                                                          | It then registers the status of the button (pushed or unpushed) and the number of pushes.                                              |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``oma_stopwatch``             | Reacts to ``pelion_create_objects_event``, ``net_state_event``, ``pelion_state_event``                   | Registers the respective Open Mobile Alliance object resources, which work as an example of the device communication with the cloud.   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``oma_stopwatch``             | Reacts to ``pelion_create_objects_event``, ``net_state_event`` and ``pelion_state_event``.                   | Registers the respective Open Mobile Alliance object resources, which work as an example of the device communication with the cloud.   |
```

|                               |                                                                                                          | You can configure the period and reset the time count.                                                                                 |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``led_state``                 | Sends ``led_event``. Reacts to ``net_state_event`` and ``pelion_state_event``.                           | Reflects the connection state onto LEDs.                                                                                               |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``power_manager``             | - Sends ``power_down_event``                                                                             | Switches the device into the low power mode when no interaction is detected for a given period of time.                                |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``power_manager``             | - Sends ``power_down_event``.                                                                             | Switches the device into the low power mode when no interaction is detected for a given period of time.                                |
```

> |                               | - Reacts to ``keep_alive_event``, ``wake_up_event``                                                      |                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|                               | - Reacts to ``keep_alive_event`` and ``wake_up_event``.                                                      |                                                                                                                                        |
```

+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``dfu``                       | Reacts to ``pelion_state_event``.                                                                        | Confirms that the DFU image is working fine after the update process.                                                                  |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``factory_reset_request``     | - Sends ``factory_reset_event``                                                                          | Checks if the factory reset is requested by the user.                                                                                  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``factory_reset_request``     | - Sends ``factory_reset_event``.                                                                          | Checks if the factory reset is requested by the user.                                                                                  |
```

> |                               | - Reacts to ``button_event``                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|                               | - Reacts to ``button_event``.                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |
```

+===============================+===========================+================================================================================+
| Network back end disconnected | **LED1** blinking         | NET_STATE_DISABLED or NET_STATE_DISCONNECTED                                   |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pelion connection search      | **LED2** blinking         | PELION_STATE_DISABLED or PELION_STATE_INITIALIZED or PELION_STATE_UNREGISTERED |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Network back end connected    | **LED1** solid on         | NET_STATE_CONNECTED                                                            |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pelion connection established | **LED2** solid on         | PELION_STATE_REGISTERED                                                        |

> +-------------------------------+---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 5: We need to update this table, as we introduced new state: `PELION_STATE_SUSPENDED` where the LED2 is breathing with 200ms period.

```
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Status                        | LED behavior                    | Related application state                                                      |
+===============================+=================================+================================================================================+
| Network back end disconnected | **LED1** breathing 500ms period | NET_STATE_DISABLED or NET_STATE_DISCONNECTED                                   |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Network back end connected    | **LED1** solid on               | NET_STATE_CONNECTED                                                            |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pelion connection search      | **LED2** breathing 500ms period | PELION_STATE_DISABLED or PELION_STATE_INITIALIZED or PELION_STATE_UNREGISTERED |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pelion device suspended       | **LED2** breathing 200ms period | PELION_STATE_SUSPENDED                                                         |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pelion connection established | **LED2** solid on               | PELION_STATE_REGISTERED                                                        |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Requirements
************

The application supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading

>    :rows: nrf9160dk_nrf9160ns, nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf52840dk_nrf52840

Reviewer 5: We also support `nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuappns` ?

> .. include:: /includes/spm.txt

Reviewer 5: This line adds info about 9160dk ns, but we can also build for 5340dk ns.

The application is built the same way to any other |NCS| application or sample.

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. note::
    For information about the known issues, see |NCS|'s :ref:`release_notes` and on the :ref:`known_issues` page.

Selecting a build type
======================

Before you start testing the application, you can select one of the build types, depending on your development kit and building method.

Selecting a build type in SES
-----------------------------

.. include:: /gs_modifying.rst
   :start-after: build_types_selection_ses_start
   :end-before: build_types_selection_ses_end

Selecting a build type from command line
----------------------------------------

.. include:: /gs_modifying.rst
   :start-after: build_types_selection_cmd_start
   :end-before: build_types_selection_cmd_end

Testing
=======

After programming the application and all the prerequisites to your development kit, test the application by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_kit|
#. Connect to the development kit with a terminal emulator to observe log messages (for debug build types).
#. Reset the development kit.
#. Turn on the development kit.

>    **LED1** and **LED2** start blinking, which indicates the network is connecting to the Pelion Device Management.

Reviewer 5: ``` suggestion
**LED1** and **LED2** start slowly breathing, which indicates the network is connecting to the Pelion Device Management.
```

   The list of all available devices is displayed.

   .. figure:: /images/pelion_device_directory.png
      :alt: Pelion's device directory

      Pelion's device directory

   A device that is actively communicating with the server (or was recently communicating with it) is listed with the ``Registered`` state and a green icon.
   The name of the device shows up on the list (and in the application log) only when it successfully connects to the server.
#. Select your device from the list of devices.
   The :guilabel:`Device details` pane appears.
#. In the :guilabel:`Device details` pane, select the :guilabel:`Resources` tab.
#. Scroll down to the value for the ``Digital Input`` resource.

   .. figure:: /images/pelion_device_resources.png
      :alt: Pelion's device directory with the resources tab selected

      Pelion's device directory with the resources tab selected

#. Press **Button 1**.
   The Digital Input instance 0 value in the Pelion Device Management Portal increases.
#. Scroll down to the value for the ``Stopwatch`` resource.
#. Wait for a couple of seconds to see the value increase.

Dependencies
************

> This application uses the following Zephyr libraries:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This application uses the following Zephyr library:
```

* :ref:`zephyr:thread_protocol_interface`

This application uses the following |NCS| libraries and drivers:

* :ref:`lib_caf`
* :ref:`event_manager`
* :ref:`lte_lc_readme`
* :ref:`partition_manager`

> It uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

Reviewer 6: libraries ?

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`
* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security`

It uses the following `sdk-mcuboot`_ libraries:

* :ref:`MCUboot <mcuboot:mcuboot_wrapper>`

In addition, it uses the following samples:

* :ref:`secure_partition_manager`

Application state events
========================

The following diagram shows the application states for the connection to the network and the Pelion Device Management Portal.

.. figure:: /images/pelion_client_states.svg

>     :alt: Application states

Reviewer 5: This diagram is outdated due to new `PELION_STATE_SUSPENDED`.

Author: Updated.

    Application states

The internal procedures refer to situations where both connection types interact with each other:

* The setup procedure takes place when the network connection is established, but the application has not yet connected to the Pelion Device Management Portal.
* The pause procedure takes place when the network connection is failing for a known reason.
* The resume procedure takes place when the network connection is restored.

The state transitions are related to the LED behavior, as described in `User interface`_.

> .. |pelion_lib_explanation| replace:: The application uses Pelion's ``mbed-cloud-client`` library, which is fetched as a module in the |NCS| into the :file:`ncs/modules/lib/pelion-dm` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. |pelion_lib_explanation| replace:: The application uses Pelion's ``mbed-cloud-client`` library, which is fetched as a module in the |NCS| into the :file:`ncs/modules/lib/pelion-dm` directory.
```
```suggestion
.. |pelion_lib_explanation| replace:: The application uses Pelion's ``mbed-cloud-client`` library, which is fetched as a module into the :file:`ncs/modules/lib/pelion-dm` directory of the |NCS|.
```

|                               | Reacts to ``net_state_event``.                                                                                |                                                                                                                                        |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``pelion_fcc``                | Reacts to ``factory_reset_event``.                                                                            | Initializes Pelion's Factory Configurator Client (FCC) and initiates the developer flow mode.                                          |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``pelion_trace``              | -                                                                                                             | If enabled, it initializes debug traces in the Pelion DM library.                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``pelion_trace``              |                                                                                                           | If enabled, it initializes debug traces in the Pelion DM library.                                                                      |
```

.. _pelion_client:

nRF Pelion Client
#################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The nRF Pelion Client application demonstrates the integration of the Pelion Device Management library (Pelion DM library) within the |NCS|.

Reviewer 2: We okay with shortenign the name like this when it's against the naming convention of the product on which it's based?

Author: Fixed.

Using a valid certificate allows the device to successfully register (connect) to the Device Management.
At this stage, the device is assigned a new device identity.

> .. warning::

Reviewer 3: Do not use warnings unless there is something that puts the user's health or life at risk: https://projecttools.nordicsemi.no/confluence/display/TECHDOC/Style+and+usage+guide

Instead, use a note.

Reviewer 4: btw - @greg-fer , if you will be changing this part, can you use "button 1" instead of "any of the buttons". This will be valid after https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/4705 is merged

Transport structure
===================

> The Pelion DM library is solely responsible for communication with the Device Management.

Reviewer 4: s/Device Management/Pelion Device Management Portal
?

You can configure the update by starting an update campaign on the `Pelion Device Management Portal`_.
All devices for the given campaign receive the update image.
If the update manifest attached to the image is valid, the new image is stored by the Pelion DM library into the MCUboot secondary application slot.
When the entire image is stored, the device reboots and MCUboot completes the device update by swapping the application images.
For details, see the `Device Management Update`_ guide in the Pelion documentation.

.. note::
   Zephyr's port of Pelion might not support the most recent update client features.
   The Device Management Update link points to the documentation of the version compatible with the |NCS|.

>    For details, refer to the Pelion documentation and release notes.

Reviewer 3: Should we have a link to the Pelion docs?

You can reset Digital Input objects' counters by putting zero into their respective values in the Pelion Device Management Portal.

> .. warning::

Reviewer 3: Do not use warnings unless there is something that puts the user's health or life at risk: https://projecttools.nordicsemi.no/confluence/display/TECHDOC/Style+and+usage+guide

Instead, use a note.

>    Holding any of the buttons during the board boot up starts the factory reset process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Pressing and holding any of the buttons during the board boot up starts the factory reset process.
```

Configuration
*************

|pelion_lib_explanation|
The Pelion DM library is enabled with :option:`CONFIG_PELION_CLIENT` configuration option.

For the library to work, you must enable and properly configure the Mbed TLS library.
To connect to the Device Management, the device must be provisioned with valid credentials.
For the firmware update procedure to work, you must provision the device with valid update resources.

> For more information about Pelion configuration options, read the `LINK TO PELION` in the Pelion documentation.

Reviewer 4: `LINK TO PELION` need to be substituted
